# SilkTouch

This folder contains SilkTouch, our C# native interoperability code generation stack.

Here's a quick explanation of all the projects, for more info see the [developer documentation](../../documentation/for-contributors/generators/readme.md)

## Silk.NET.SilkTouch.ClangSharp.Xml

A completely separate/standalone ClangSharp XML parsing library, parsing the output generated by the ClangSharp P/Invoke Generator when in XML mode rather than C# mode.

## Silk.NET.SilkTouch.Common

This is the main project for the Roslyn/CLI Shared Infrastructure. It contains all of the configuration constructs, and basic plumbing for passing inputs and outputs to generation stages.

## Silk.NET.SilkTouch.Emitter

The SilkTouch Emitter generator, built on top of Silk.NET.SilkTouch.Common. This generates blittable C# platform invoke (P/Invoke) code, and does not do any marshalling.

## Silk.NET.SilkTouch.Overloader

The SilkTouch Overloader generator, built on top of Silk.NET.SilkTouch.Common. This, given a signature with pointers or other overloadable types, will generate higher-level, more C#-like overloads that wrap a function, performing necessary marshalling when lowering those types.

## Silk.NET.SilkTouch.Roslyn

The Roslyn Source Generator implementation of the Shared Infrastructure. This calls into `SilkTouchGenerator` and creates a `SilkTouchContext` for the Emitter and Overloader, which is passed into and used to run those generators.

## Silk.NET.SilkTouch.Scraper

The SilkTouch Scraper generator. This is built on top of Silk.NET.SilkTouch.Common, but only uses the CLI form factor and is locked to .NET 6 (unlike the other packages which must be .NET Standard 2.0 to enable Roslyn Source Generator support)

## SilkTouch

The `dotnet tool` and Command Line Interface (CLI) implementation of the Shared Infrastructure. This calls into `SilkTouchGenerator` and creates a `SilkTouchContext` for the Scraper, Emitter, and Overloader; which is passed into and used to run those generators.

## More Documentation Resources

- [Developer Documentation](../../documentation/for-contributors/generators/readme.md)
- TODO: Add a proposal link once the reorg of the folder is done