# Scraper

The SilkTouch Scraper is responsible for walking through the abstract syntax tree (AST) of a C/C++ header and all the referenced headers therein to generate C# bindings to as much of this as possible where the configuration indicates this is desirable. Only certain headers will have bindings generated for them, which can be specified by providing the paths to the headers to "traverse" in the JSON configuration.

## ClangSharp

To walk through the C/C++ AST, ClangSharp's P/Invoke Generator is used, which is a proven tool for generating C# bindings to C/C++ APIs published by Microsoft. It does this by using the clang compiler to walk through the AST.

ClangSharp's P/Invoke Generator is capable of producing C# bindings on its own, however these are raw bindings that use DllImport and don't aim to lift the bindings to be more C#-friendly. However, as part of Scraper development work was done to add an "XML output mode" to ClangSharp which instead of producing pure C# code, it outputs XML which roughly represents what the C# code would've looked like.

## The Subagent

ClangSharp uses libclang, which has funny rules over multithreading. To maintain a degree of parallelism during generation, the invocation of ClangSharp was moved to be done in a separate process. The original intention was to invoke the `ClangSharpPInvokeGenerator` tool as shipped publicly, but unfortunately `dotnet tool`s cannot be referenced by other libraries or `dotnet tool`s. As such, we created our own shim which mimics the behaviour of and duplicates a lot of code from the `ClangSharpPInvokeGenerator` tool, but within the same CLI executable.

### The `ISubagent` abstraction

`ISubagent` is responsible for launching the ClangSharp tool with certain parameters, inputs, and configuration. This is an abstraction such that the main Scraper assembly remains easily portable to another form factor should we enable the Scraper to run in another form factor in the future, as well as to prevent the library assembly knowing too much about the assembly in which its executing.

The only implementation of this interface is the `ClangSharpSubagent` class in the `SilkTouch` assembly (CLI implementation of the Shared Infrastructure) which gathers information on the currently executing assembly, and relaunches it with `clangsharp` as the first argument and a JSON-encoded record as the second.

### The `silktouch clangsharp` command

This is the command that invokes ClangSharp as described in the previous section. This deserializes the JSON-encoded record and passes the data held therein to the `PInvokeGenerator` class within ClangSharp. This will generate the XML dump and then quit, possibly with some ClangSharp-generated diagnostics and a non-zero error code if those diagnostics are severe. The implementation of this is in the `ClangSharpHandoff` class.

## XML Mods

Once an initial XML dump has been generated by The Subagent, the XML dump will be parsed by the `Silk.NET.SilkTouch.ClangSharp.Xml` library and produce a tree of records. This is done in the `ScraperGenerator` ahead of the XML mods stage.

The purpose of the XML mods stage is to walk this tree of records, and modify it depending on the project configuration (for example changing all names to be PascalCase, or adding custom attributes to cause the Overloader to generate certain overloads). Each mod must be specifically enabled, and has free range over the XML. As such, they execute in the order in which they were specified in the project configuration.

Each XML mod has access to the `ScraperJobConfiguration.ModOptions` and the full XML tree. It does not have any access to resources beyond that, such as the SilkTouch Context.

TODO: Write words here about each XML mod once XML mods have been implemented

## Transformation

After the XML mods have been applied, the transformation stage is responsible for converting the bindings represented by the XML tree back into C# code that can be output via the SilkTouch Context (and added to the project compilation). Unlike ClangSharp, this stage will output bindings which are compatible with/invoke the Emitter and Overloader instead of using DllImport directly.

TODO: Write more words here once this stage is implemented.
