# Shared Infrastructure

The Shared Infrastructure contains common code and abstractions for bootstrapping and running generators within the SilkTouch Stack. It aims to ensure that SilkTouch generators are easily portable, and have a unified interface over multiple generation mediums such that no extra code is required in individual generators to accomodate new form factors.

## "Form Factor"

A "Form Factor", referred to throughout the documentation, is simply a distinct type of application which invokes the SilkTouch Stack via the Shared Infrastructure (i.e. "it's a place where SilkTouch runs"). Distinct types such as Roslyn Source Generators and Command Line Interfaces, which are the two first-party form factors supported today.

## Configuration

All JSON configuration structures are represented by C# records in the Silk.NET.SilkTouch.Configuration namespace (in the Configuration folder of Silk.NET.SilkTouch.Common).

### Project Configuration

Each project has its own JSON configuration file which defines what each generator does for that particular project. This file should be added by the user as an `AdditionalFiles` file, with the name `silktouch.json` unless the `silktouch_config_file` `.editorconfig` option is used to override this with a new file name or file path (either absolute or relative). 

Each generator has its own specific configuration structure, which is outlined in XML documentation in the `Config.cs` file as well as the markdown documents for each individual generator.

The project configuration also provides a (relative or absolute) path to a file containing the global configuration.

### Global Configuration

The global configuration contains variables which aren't specific to a particular project or generation process/job. Stuff like the License Header, which doesn't need to be duplicated across every single project configuration.

## Generation

### SilkTouch "Context"

The SilkTouch "Context" (represented by the `SilkTouchContext` class in the `Silk.NET.SilkTouch.Generation` namespace, or Generation folder of Silk.MET.SilkTouch.Common) encapsulates all inputs and outputs passed into and retrieved from a generator running atop the Shared Infrastructure. It exists to isolate each individual generator from one another, and provide one unified data structure containing everything a generator might reasonably need to access about a project. 

Some SilkTouch Contexts have access to outputs generated by other generators in the `AdditionalSyntaxTrees` property. To ease context consumption, there is a `AllSyntaxTrees` property which will contain both the Roslyn `Compilation`'s syntax trees as well as the newly-added syntax trees. Currently this is only the Emitter and Overloader if the Scraper has ran before them, though it is intended that the Shared Infrastructure will be expanded to have a full-blown dependency resolution mechanism to allow more generator modularity and dynamic definition of a generator's soft or hard dependencies.

### The Generator Object

The Generator Object (represented by the `SilkTouchGenerator` class) is responsible for the consumption of basic project information, and morphing/storing this information in a way that allows for Contexts to be created from the generator object. After a context is created, it will be consumed by a generator, and then once again "ingested" by the generator object. This generator object forwards the results to bindable events, which are subscribed to by the form factor.

The intention of this is to reduce duplicated code between the two form factors we maintain, and provide an interface to ease the bootstrapping of SilkTouch code generation - this class significantly reduces the amount of work required to implement another form factor.

Currently there are no methods on `SilkTouchGenerator` which can create a `SilkTouchContext` directly, nor are there APIs which nicely facilitate the passing of generated outputs to a stage depending on them. Both of which are things we'd like to address in the future. 